The Hypertext Transfer Protocol (HTTP) is designed to enable communications between clients and servers.

HTTP works as a request-response protocol between a client and server.

A web browser may be the client, and an application on a computer that hosts a web site may be the server.

Example: A client (browser) submits an HTTP request to the server; then the server returns a response to the client. The response contains status information about the request and may also contain the requested content.






The GET Method
GET is used to request data from a specified resource.

GET is one of the most common HTTP methods.

Some other notes on GET requests:

GET requests can be cached
GET requests remain in the browser history
GET requests can be bookmarked
GET requests should never be used when dealing with sensitive data
GET requests have length restrictions
GET requests is only used to request data (not modify)








The POST Method
POST is used to send data to a server to create/update a resource.

The data sent to the server with POST is stored in the request body of the HTTP request:

POST /test/demo_form.php HTTP/1.1
Host: w3schools.com
name1=value1&name2=value2
POST is one of the most common HTTP methods.

Some other notes on POST requests:

POST requests are never cached
POST requests do not remain in the browser history
POST requests cannot be bookmarked
POST requests have no restrictions on data length












The PUT Method
PUT is used to send data to a server to create/update a resource.

The difference between POST and PUT is that PUT requests are idempotent. That is, calling the same PUT request multiple times will always produce the same result. In contrast, calling a POST request repeatedly have side effects of creating the same resource multiple times.






The DELETE Method
The DELETE method deletes the specified resource.





The OPTIONS Method
The OPTIONS method describes the communication options for the target resource.





